---
title: Don’t ever ignore Blockchain if you’re into Fashion
author: Uchi Uchibeke
authorURL: https://uchi.uchibeke.com
authorFBID: 100006518800911
---

Imagine someone stealing you design and selling as theirs. Fighting them will
take ages and if you’re a small designer, it’s easier to let it go. That must
stop!

This article is the second article in a series of developing a Blockchain
business network. Last week’s article focused on introducing this series and
highlighting its key features. [Check out the article to learn
more](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/developing-great-solution-blockchain-intro-uchi-nick-uchibeke?lipi=urn:li:page:d_flagship3_profile_view_base_post_details;Cgcl7gWISqixiBopEE6lKQ==).
This week, I will be highlighting some use cases of Blockchain. I will conclude
by sharing a use case that will be designed throughout this series.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2600/1*-alxYyQulwRRUBx-TWKFHA.jpeg)
<!--truncate-->

### Why Hyperledger Fabric

In [last week’s
article](https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/developing-great-solution-blockchain-intro-uchi-nick-uchibeke?lipi=urn:li:page:d_flagship3_profile_view_base_post_details;Cgcl7gWISqixiBopEE6lKQ==),
I mentioned that I will be using Linux Foundation’s and IBM’s Hyperledger Fabric
as a foundation for the Blockchain solution. I got a few questions and push
backs about this decision so I think it is a good idea to start with
highlighting why I am using Hyperledger Fabric. To begin, I would like to
mention that I believe that many of the other Blockchains like Ethereum are
great. However, I will only be sharing my opinion on Hyperledger Fabric as a
good framework for developing business networks. Firstly, Fabric is, by design,
permissioned. We can collectively define memberships and access rights. In other
words, participation can be restricted and this is good for an enterprise
system. It also provides a selectively high degree of confidentiality which
makes it a good choice for businesses and enterprises. Additionally, it does not
require any gas (high computational power or a currency) to run. Finally,
Hyperledger Fabric is supported by the Linux Foundation and I believe that it is
a good initiative and it has the potential to transform businesses.

### Use Cases of Blockchain

So, what exactly can Blockchains be used for? A Blockchain is good for
establishing trust in systems where the parties do not trust each other.
Blockchain enforces trust between parties and ensures that each party gets what
they are entitled to. A Blockchain is also good for systems where consensus is
important and systems that need to be highly secure and impenetrable. Some use
cases of Blockchain include:

**Transactions**: Blockchains are good for peer-to-peer asset exchange because
it strongly reduces or even eliminates counterparty risk. For example, paying
someone in another country without using a bank transfer which can take
days/weeks and comes with a big fee.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/0*fLZMr1IfUII4bjzb.jpg)

**Reconciliation**: The current process in many financial institutions is that
at the end of each day/week, transfers between two parties get reconciled with
one party paying the other a balance. This is a better approach than the earlier
methods of back and forth transfer between the parties. Blockchain will make the
current process easily auditable because each transaction can easily be traced
back to its origin in a Blockchain system.

### Blockchain in Fashion

When I was a boy growing up in Nigeria, my mother introduced me via her fashion
and fabric business to the world of designing custom clothes that are tailored
to fit. A key lesson that I learned while watching her train apprentices is that
precision and great attention to detail is key to the fit of any dress.
Precision also plays a key role in minor things like threading a sewing machine
or hand beading a dress. Experienced designers like my mother and others in the
industry who come up with innovative designs and methods for improving these
designs are oftentimes not given credit for their innovative and novel ideas.
Any other designer or even a tailor can easily just copy the design and sell
them as theirs. What if there was a system that holds an indestructible record
of each new design and allows auditing while also flagging already existing
designs that we try to add to the system? Well, I believe Blockchain can be used
to build out this solution. Because I just came up with this idea while writing
this article, I currently do not have an end to end business case for it. Next
week, I will do a deep dive into how Blockchain can fit into the idea and we can
start planning out the business network.

### Summary

By way of review, in today’s piece, I mentioned that I chose Hyperledger fabric
because it is permissioned, does not require high computational power and it is
backed by the Linux Foundation. I also discussed how Blockchains can be used for
asset exchange and reconciliation. Finally, I told you a story about my mother’s
fashion business. I then concluded by making a proposal for a Blockchain
solution in the fashion industry. For next week, assuming you have a use case
for Blockchain, think about who the participants of your business network will
be, what the asset(s) are and what transactions (smart contracts) need to be
executed in the Blockchain network to accomplish your business goal. Please,
leave questions and comments below. See you next week!

---
