---
title: Finally, an AI for your wedding planning
author: Uchi Uchibeke
authorURL: https://lushplans.com/about.html
authorFBID: 100006518800911
---

Ever wondered how Big Data and AI will affect you personally? Well, you’d get
the answer in a moment. We all like good food, cheerful music, engaging company
and perfectly-planned events.

Is it possible to use AI to make parties more fun? How about party planning? Can
we use AI to make the planning process easier?

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*1DjG15wxtQOEtGcleOgJyw.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [Sorry
imKirk](https://unsplash.com/photos/xP4l_qlUMJU?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>
<!--truncate-->

> How about that delicious Naija party Jollof?

Weddings are one of the parties that almost all of us have attended. In fact,
some of us have organized them and we know how stressful planning them can be.
They’re fun to attend, though, and we like them. But what about wedding parties?

Weddings are one of the most important parties for the bride, groom and their
families and friends. People love weddings and many of us want our weddings to
memorable, special.

We like the good food and we can’t wait to dance [Shaku
shaku](https://www.google.ca/search?q=shaku+shaku) when the DJ hits the beats.
But wait. What if you can’t even do your S*haku shaku* because of the DJ? What
if the DJ does not play a beat you dig? Have you ever imagined that AI could
influence which DJ is hired to play at a wedding?

How about that delicious Naija party
[Jollof](https://www.google.ca/search?q=nigerian+Jollof&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ved=0ahUKEwiRwsGD7KbcAhVl8IMKHRgaC_MQ_AUICigB&biw=1578&bih=1320)
(sorry my Ghanaian brothers and sisters)? Can AI make or break the taste of that
Jollof? What if they hired a roadside *mama put* that has no experience cooking
for big classy events like a wedding? Will the Naija Jollof turn to Ghanaian
jollof?

How can AI even help us to choose the right Jollof? The right S*haku shaku* DJ?
The right venue with good AC? We all know that AC is bae in Nigerian weather.

> AI could influence which DJ plays at a wedding

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*kxharonzGAoTB6gi79NNqw.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [William
Stitt](https://unsplash.com/photos/QdGlponzosk?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>

*****

**Imagine **a bride that is planning a wedding has to drive to multiple wedding
dressmakers. She does not know how much they charge or if she can afford any of
their dresses. Because she went to one of the top ones like
[aprilbykunbi](https://app.lushplans.com/?ig=aprilbykunbi), she pays a N20K (~
$70) consultation fee. After the consultation, she finds out that her 150k (~
$470) budget for a wedding dress is nowhere near the N350k (~ $1,100) price of
the wedding dresses that the vendor sells. She does this for up to 10 vendors.

In the process, she loses 2 full days, wastes fuel, losses the consultation fees
and also does not get a good dress that fits her budget. This happens a lot. It
is the reality of many brides.

The brides that have been through this can confirm that it is not easy to plan a
wedding. In fact, many brides feel very stressed out and extremely exhausted on
their wedding day. Can something be done about this
[gbese](https://jegbese.com/2017/12/28/jegbese-meaning/)*,* though?

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*Wdmbj1fs5RCC9Lyul69Vaw.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [Franck
V.](https://unsplash.com/photos/YKW0JjP7rlU?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>

*****

**Imagine this new scenario - AI working with the bride to save the day:** A
bride tells the AI that she wants to have a white wedding in Abuja, a wedding
reception in Lagos and a traditional Naija wedding in Calabar. Three events,
three cities, and three dates. Without the AI, how does our bride handle this
[wahala](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wahala_(Yoruba))? Does she travel to all
the cities? Does she trust people in all the cities? How does she make each of
the events perfect? Luckily, she does not have to do this all alone! She uses
AI!

Because the AI that she uses is smart and has gathered, analyzed and ranked
millions of data points, the AI tells her what she needs for each of her events
and presents her with a complete list of wedding vendors in each event city to
make each and every event perfect. She tells the AI her budget and the AI
adjusts accordingly to match her budget.

> AI adjusts accordingly to match her budget.

She can even remove some vendors and the price adjusts accordingly. She sets
things that are important to her and the AI presents only vendors that match
those preferences. She then contacts them and they get to work for her.
Throughout the process, the AI monitors the performance of the vendors and gives
her real-time status updates. This scenario is the ideal wedding planning
scenario made possible by a truly brilliant relationship between the bride and
our AI. At the end of the day, the bride is happy. She had a say in her wedding
planning and was able to customize each and every detail from the comfort of her
home.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*wfD3bYWhPqHDlhovVRXXGQ.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">[https://app.lushplans.com/](https://app.lushplans.com/)</span>

*****

What you’ve just imagined is not wishful thinking. You are also not daydreaming
about your perfect wedding. It is real and it is here to stay.

Lush Plans, the Nigerian wedding planning platform, does this and many more.
When it launches, brides and grooms will be able to transform the stress of
wedding planning to fulfillment.

They will be able to spend time exploring each other instead of doing less
impactful stuff. With the help of AI, AI as an assistant and the couple as the
pilot, they will be able to plan their perfect day and live happily ever after.
