---
title: My mother built an empire with $3 and it inspires me do what I do
author: Uchi Uchibeke
authorURL: https://uchi.uchibeke.com
authorFBID: 100006518800911
---

When I was a kid growing up in Nigeria, my mother started a Business with less
than $3 (650 NGN). She started by learning how to sew and then worked as a
tailor for a few years. After that, she expanded her small tailoring business
and started selling Fabrics. She went further to establish a fashion
apprenticeship centre to train other women to become fashion designers. From $3,
she grew her Business to multiple states in Nigeria, exported her designs to
people in Europe and North America and trained and funded more than 100 women.
She worked very hard and inspired my interest in the fashion and entertainment
industry.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*BfSCnMBkvdEoOP2vdtWpxw.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [Nathaniel
Tetteh](https://unsplash.com/photos/jAcWpbIx87k?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>

<!--truncate-->

### When to say no

My mother taught me many invaluable lessons. From her, I learned the value of
hard work, consistency, diligence, and prudence. I learned that for a business
to grow, the founder must follow a route that other businesses do not follow.
While watching her in one of her stores, I remember how she was able to bargain
and win contracts. This taught me the value of negotiation and gave me to
confidence to ask for more and also decline offers that don’t advance my goals
or that of my Business. In her stores, she combined small add-ons to her main
products to add value for customers and thus win more businesses. My mother was
a strong, powerful and independent woman and I am who I am today because of her.

### How to learn from failure

In 2016, I started playing with the idea of building a platform to help couples
invite guests to their wedding and went on to build an MVP over the 2016
Christmas break. Through research and [the State of Nigerian Weddings
Survey](https://lushplans.com/blog/2018/04/27/research.html) that I led, I
learned that the original idea was not suitable for the market. So, Lush Plans
was born.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*c1GwEbe_gFHkokv1scXTlQ.png)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Lush Plans homepage [https://lushplans.com/](https://lushplans.com/)</span>

### What is Lush Plans

Lush Plans is a platform that allows couples and event planners to plan a
wedding with the push of a button using the formula:

> Budget + wedding info = wedding package.

For couples and their parents that are planning a wedding, this is a very simple
formula and it saves them a lot of time and money and prevents disappointments
on their special day. Behind the scene, on our end, a lot of work goes into
generating each and every wedding package. Each step in the process is
intentionally designed with the goal of transforming the stress of wedding
planning to fulfillment, which is our mission at Lush Plans. Before a vendor
joins the Lush Plans platform, we use data and machine learning to validate
them. We also know their rank in relation to the > 20k Nigerian vendors that we
know. We also understand what people are saying about them and their cumulative
Lush Taps, Lush Feels and Lush Weddings (These are labels for some factors that
we measure and use to rank vendors). These and a couple’s preferences enable us
to recommend the best vendor for any Nigerian wedding and ensure that a couple’s
special day is truly special for them.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/2000/1*BoP-di0LmKiAeIm3USsMLQ.png)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Lush Plans vendor rank page
[https://app.lushplans.com/](https://app.lushplans.com/)</span>

### Building a Movement

It is sometimes scary to be the Founder of something like Lush Plans and to
imagine what it will become. My mother, however, taught me to pursue excellence,
to be kind to people and to love what I do. These values are what Lush Plans is
built on and they make us different. Every day, I am inspired by the team and I
am looking forward to seeing what they build. I truly believe that the wedding
industry is exciting and that we have the power to make a difference in the
space. Lush Plans is part of an upcoming entertainment movement that will add
value to every aspect of the entertainment space in Africa and the world and I
can’t wait to see how this unfolds. I always say that we are not building a
company. We are, instead, building a movement but starting first with weddings.
Want to be part of this movement? Check out the solid
[team](https://lushplans.com/about.html) behind Lush Plans and read some of our
thoughts in the [Lush Plans blog](https://lushplans.com/blog/). We are looking
for Developers, Designers, and Salespeople, so [join our
team](https://lushplans.com/docs/careers.html).

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*DKz0qZCUwFLyP_QnmU__3g.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [Andrae
Ricketts](https://unsplash.com/photos/Q9_zv0LN4jU?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>

---
