---
title: These are the best gifts to give Nigerian Newly-weds
author: Temidele Kareem
authorURL: https://lushplans.com/about.html
authorFBID: 100000091163010
---

It’s an amazing feeling to watch your friend or relative get married. It’s even
more amazing to watch them start a family and home. Therefore, I’d expect you
would want to be as supportive as possible as you watch them do this. Where am I
headed? I’ll tell you. Giving wedding gifts is a significant wedding custom that
probably dates as far back as when people started celebrating weddings publicly
or beyond.

<!--truncate-->
> You want to make sure that they use whatever you get them and use it well

A lot of people mean well when they purchase certain gifts for newly weds. Of
course it is the intention that counts, right? Yes, but I’d like you to think
deeper than that and actually consider what the couple needs and would immensely
appreciate. You want to make sure that they use whatever you get them and use it
well. After all, you did spend quite an amount to purchase the items.

So you must be wondering by now: what are the ideal wedding gifts to get a
newlywed? If you keep reading, I’ll show you great gift ideas that will
definitely stand out in the eyes of the bride and groom.

Still here? Great! The majority of the items are household pieces. But I’ll be
specific.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*mSQqUxJBr0F75dh93Dg88Q.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [Soroush
Karimi](https://unsplash.com/photos/Mx5kwvzeGC0?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/search/photos/kitchen?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>

### **KITCHEN UNITS**

I don’t mean the regularly expected cutlery set, pots and tea set. No. Remember
you want your gift to stand out. Purchase units such as **yam pounders, juice
extractors, food processors, modern pressure cookers, coffee makers, rice makers
**etc. These items are quite affordable and so you don’t need to break the bank
to get them. They will also be very appreciated and made proper use of by the
couple.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*g-mF-mf61LeihrQ83-ilPw.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [chrissie
kremer](https://unsplash.com/photos/iALEk3nQvLI?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/search/photos/appliances?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>

### **ELECTRONIC DEVICES**:

If you’re feeling **extravagant** and you can afford to go the extra mile, you
could gift the newly weds with items such as a **washing machine, drying
machine, fridge, stabiliser, inverter, sound system** and things of the sort.
That’ll be really awesome!

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*kTLWrCy0CT-502t94d2O2g.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">www.beawara.com</span>

### **MATCHING ITEMS**:

Newly weds are the most protruded love birds. You can gift them with matching
items such as **mugs, bath-robes, quality T-shirts, engraved throw pillows or
even Ankara materials or any material at all**.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*4e6hn4yzE3Wytq66q9lxEw.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [Charisse
Kenion](https://unsplash.com/photos/JmABkRmLSpw?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/search/photos/perfumes?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>

### **CLOTHING**:

I’ve noticed that people hardly give out clothing items as wedding gifts. Why?!
Everyone loves a **new bag, shoe, or branded clothes and accessories**. Even**
perfumes**. Don’t stick to the cliché of handing out just household items. A
family can really only have so many pots, you know?

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*6LPuOSVOSWFH40ZV5PGkIg.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [Lucian
Andrei](https://unsplash.com/photos/efZyI0zo7O8?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/search/photos/home-decoration?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>

### **DECORATIONS**:

Gifts such as **scented candles, paintings, frames, reading lamps, front door
mats, engraved block frames, furniture accessories** are very lovely and always
cherished. Go out of your way and get unique and beautiful ones. They don’t cost
that much either.

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1600/1*obDUlU8jDxaxendkbx5DOw.jpeg)
<span class="figcaption_hack">Photo by [Joanna
Kosinska](https://unsplash.com/photos/LbMy35NyCNg?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)
on
[Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/search/photos/letter?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText)</span>

### **MONEY**:

A couple may not ask and people may not say it a lot, but **monetary gifts are
the most valued wedding gifts**. A lot of couples (if not all) spend a lot
during the wedding planning and end up in dept after the ceremony. That’s one
way you could help pull the out of that dilemma. You could also be contributing
to the honeymoon too! Write a cheque, execute a bank transfer or even give cash!
Whatever be the case, you’ll be a lifesaver, no matter the amount. It’s also a
great resort if you don’t know what to buy, or forgot to buy something.

> Write a cheque, execute a bank transfer or even give cash

I hope this inspired you in one way or the other to intentionally think outside
the box when it comes to gifting the people you love.

Good luck!
